Docs/source/rotation.rst, before:

.. _ch:rotation:

********
Rotation
********

Introduction
============

Currently, Castro supports constant, solid-body rotation about a fixed
(in space and time) axis in 2D and 3D by transforming the evolution
equations to the rotating frame of reference.

To include rotation you must set::

    USE_ROTATION = TRUE

in the ``GNUMakefile``. Rotation can then be enabled via::

    castro.do_rotation = 1

in the inputs file. The rotational period must then be set via
``castro.rotational_period``. The rotational period is internally
converted to an angular frequency for use in the source term
equations.

The axis of rotation currently depends on the dimensionality of the
problem and the value of coord_sys; in all cases, however, the
default axis of rotation points from ``problem::center`` in the vertical direction.

.. note:: make sure you have set the ``problem::center()`` variable
   appropriately for you problem.  This can be done by directly
   setting it in the ``problem_initialize()`` function.

The "vertical direction" is defined as follows:

* 2D

  * ``coord_sys = 0``, (x,y): out of the (x,y)-plane along the “z”-axis

  * ``coord_sys = 1``, (r,z): along the z-axis

* 3D

  * ``coord_sys = 0``, (x,y,z): along the z-axis

To change these defaults, modify the omega vector in the
``ca_rotate`` routine found in the ``Rotate_$(DIM)d.f90`` file.

The main parameters that affect rotation are:

-  ``castro.do_rotation`` : include rotation as a forcing
   term (0 or 1; default: 0)

-  ``castro.rotational_period`` : period (s) of rotation
   (default: 0.0)

-  ``castro.rotational_dPdt`` : d(period) / dt for rotation
   (default: 0.0)

-  ``castro.rotation_include_centrifugal`` : whether to
   include the centrifugal forcing (default: 1)

-  ``castro.rotation_include_coriolis`` : whether to
   include the Coriolis forcing (default: 1)

-  ``castro.rotation_include_domegadt`` : whether to
   include the forcing from the time derivative of the rotation
   frequency (default: 1)

-  ``castro.rot_source_type`` : method of updating the
   energy during a rotation update (default: 4)

-  ``castro.implicit_rotation_update`` : for the Coriolis
   term, which mixes momenta in the source term, whether we should
   solve for the update implicitly (default: 1)

-  ``castro.rot_axis`` : rotation axis (default: 3
   (Cartesian); 2 (cylindrical))

For completeness, we show below a derivation of the source terms that
appear in the momentum and total energy evolution equations upon
switching to a rotating reference frame.

Coordinate transformation to rotating frame
===========================================

.. figure:: tframes.png
   :alt: inertial vs. corotating frame

   Inertial frame :math:`C` and
   non-inertial frame :math:`\tilde{C}`. We consider a fluid element
   :math:`P`, whose distance in the two frames is related by
   :math:`{\bf r} = \tilde{\bf{r}} + {\bf l}`

Consider an inertial reference frame :math:`C` and a non-inertial
reference frame :math:`\widetilde{C}` whose origins are separated by
the vector :math:`\boldsymbol{l}` (see the figure above). The
non-inertial frame is rotating about the axis :math:`\ob` with a
*constant* angular velocity :math:`\omega`; furthermore, we assume the
*direction* of the rotational axis is fixed. Consider a fluid element
at the point :math:`P` whose location is given by :math:`\rb` in
:math:`C` and by :math:`\rbt` in :math:`\widetilde{C}`:

.. math:: \rb = \rbt + \boldsymbol{l},

or in component notation

.. math::
   r_i\boldsymbol{e_i} = \widetilde{r_i}\widetilde{\boldsymbol{e_i}} + l_i\boldsymbol{e_i},
   :label: eq:r

where :math:`\boldsymbol{e_i}` and :math:`\widetilde{\boldsymbol{e_i}}` are the :math:`i`\ th unit
vectors in the :math:`C` and :math:`\widetilde{C}` coordinate systems,
respectively. The total time rate of change of :eq:`eq:r` is given by

.. math::
   \frac{Dr_i}{Dt}\boldsymbol{e_i} = \frac{D\widetilde{r_i}}{Dt}\widetilde{\boldsymbol{e_i}} + \widetilde{r_i}\frac{D\widetilde{\boldsymbol{e_i}}}{Dt} + \frac{Dl_i}{Dt}\boldsymbol{e_i},
   :label: eq:vcomp


where we have used the fact that the unit vectors of the inertial
frame :math:`C` are not moving (or at least can be considered stationary,
and the change in :math:`\boldsymbol{l}` gives the relative motion of the two
coordinate systems). By definition, a unit vector can not change its
length, and therefore the only change of :math:`\widetilde{\boldsymbol{e_i}}` with
time can come from changing direction. This change is carried out by
a rotation about the :math:`\ob` axis, and the tip of the unit
vector moves circumferentially, that is

.. math::
   \frac{D\widetilde{\boldsymbol{e_i}}}{Dt} = \ob\times\widetilde{\boldsymbol{e_i}}.
   :label: eq:etilde-rot


Plugging :eq:`eq:etilde-rot` into :eq:`eq:vcomp` and switching back to
vector notation, we have

.. math::
   \frac{D\rb}{Dt} = \frac{D\rbt}{Dt} + \ob\times\rbt + \frac{D\boldsymbol{l}}{Dt}.
   :label: eq:r-dot


The left hand side of :eq:`eq:r-dot` is interpreted as the velocity
of the fluid element as seen in the inertial frame; the first term on the
right hand side is the velocity of the fluid element as seen by a
stationary observer in the rotating frame :math:`\widetilde{C}`. The second
and third terms on the right hand side of :eq:`eq:r-dot` describe the
additional velocity due to rotation and translation of the frame
:math:`\widetilde{C}` as seen in :math:`C`. In other words,

.. math::
   \vb = \vbt + \ob\times\rbt + \boldsymbol{v_l},
   :label: eq:v


where we use :math:`\boldsymbol{v_l}` to represent the translational velocity.

Similarly, by taking a second time derivative of :eq:`eq:v` we have

.. math::
   \frac{D\vb}{Dt} = \frac{D\vbt}{Dt} + 2\ob\times\vbt + \ob\times\left[\ob\times\rbt\right] + \frac{D\boldsymbol{v_l}}{Dt}.
   :label: eq:a


Henceforth we will assume the two coordinate systems are not
translating relative to one another, :math:`\boldsymbol{v_l} = 0`. It is
also worth mentioning that derivatives with respect to spatial
coordinates do not involve additional terms due to rotation,
i.e. :math:`\nablab\cdot\vb = \nablab\cdot\vbt`.
Because of this, the continuity equation remains unchanged in the
rotating frame:

.. math::
   \frac{\partial \rho}{\partial t} = -\nablab\cdot\left(\rho\vbt\right),
   :label: eq:cont-rot


or

.. math::
   \frac{D\rho}{Dt} = -\rho\nablab\cdot\vbt.
   :label: eq:cont-rot-total


Momentum equation in rotating frame
===================================

The usual momentum equation applies in an inertial frame:

.. math::
   \frac{D\left(\rho\vb\right)}{Dt} = -\rho\vb\cdot\nablab\vb - \nablab p + \rho\gb.
   :label: eq:mom1


Using the continuity equation, :eq:`eq:cont-rot-total`, and substituting for
the terms in the rotating frame from :eq:`eq:a`, we have from :eq:`eq:mom1`:

.. math::

   \begin{align}
       \rho\left(\frac{D\vbt}{Dt} + 2\ob\times\vbt + \ob\times\left[\ob\times\rbt\right]\right) - \rho\vb\nablab\cdot\vb &= -\rho\vb\cdot\nablab\vb - \nablab p + \rho\gb \nonumber \\
       \rho\left(\frac{\partial\vbt}{\partial t} + \vbt\cdot\nablab\vbt\right) &= -\nablab p + \rho\gb - 2\rho\ob\times\vbt - \rho\ob\times\left[\ob\times\rbt\right] \nonumber \\
     \frac{\partial\left(\rho\vbt\right)}{\partial t} &= -\nablab\cdot\left(\rho\vbt\vbt\right) - \nablab p + \rho\gb - 2\rho\ob\times\vbt \nonumber \\
     &-\ \rho\ob\times\left[\ob\times\rbt\right]\label{eq:mom-rot}
     \end{align}

or

.. math::
   \frac{D\left(\rho\vbt\right)}{Dt} = -\rho\vbt\cdot\nablab\vbt - \nablab p + \rho\gb - 2\rho\ob\times\vbt - \rho\ob\times\left[\ob\times\rbt\right].
   :label: eq:mom-rot-tot


Energy equations in rotating frame
==================================

From :eq:`eq:mom-rot-tot`, we have the velocity evolution equation in
a rotating frame

.. math::
   \frac{D\vbt}{Dt} = -\frac{1}{\rho}\nablab p + \gb - 2\ob\times\vbt - \ob\times\left[\ob\times\rbt\right].
   :label: eq:v-rot


The kinetic energy equation can be obtained from :eq:`eq:v-rot` by
multiplying by :math:`\rho\vbt`:

.. math::
   \begin{align}
       \rho\vbt\cdot\frac{D\vbt}{Dt} &= -\vbt\cdot\nablab p + \rho\vbt\cdot\gb - 2\rho\vbt\cdot\left[\ob\times\vbt\right] - \rho\vbt\cdot\left\{\ob\times\left[\ob\times\rbt\right]\right\} \nonumber \\
       \frac{1}{2}\frac{D\left(\rho\vbt\cdot\vbt\right)}{Dt} - \frac{1}{2}\vbt\cdot\vbt\frac{D\rho}{Dt} &= -\vbt\cdot\nablab p + \rho\vbt\cdot\gb - \rho\vbt\cdot\left[\left(\ob\cdot\rbt\right)\ob - \rho\omega^2\rbt\right] \nonumber \\
       \frac{1}{2}\frac{D\left(\rho\vbt\cdot\vbt\right)}{Dt} &= -\frac{1}{2}\rho\vbt\cdot\vbt\nablab\cdot\vbt - \vbt\cdot\nablab p + \rho\vbt\cdot\gb - \rho\vbt\cdot\left[\left(\ob\cdot\rbt\right)\ob - \rho\omega^2\rbt\right].
     \end{align}
   :label: eq:ekin-rot-total

The internal energy is simply advected, and, from the first law of
thermodynamics, can change due to :math:`pdV` work:

.. math::
   \frac{D\left(\rho e\right)}{Dt} = -\left(\rho e + p\right)\nablab\cdot\vbt.
   :label: eq:eint-rot-total


Combining :eq:`eq:ekin-rot-total` and :eq:`eq:eint-rot-total` we can
get the evolution of the total specific energy in the rotating frame,
:math:`\rho \widetilde{E} = \rho e + \frac{1}{2}\rho\vbt\cdot\vbt`:

.. math::

   \begin{align}
       \frac{D\left(\rho e\right)}{Dt} + \frac{1}{2}\frac{D\left(\rho\vbt\cdot\vbt\right)}{Dt} &= -\left(\rho e + p + \frac{1}{2}\rho\vbt\cdot\vbt\right)\nablab\cdot\vbt - \vbt\cdot\nablab p \\
                     & + \rho\vbt\cdot\gb -\rho\vbt\cdot\left[\left(\ob\cdot\rbt\right)\ob - \rho\omega^2\rbt\right]\nonumber \\
       \frac{D\left(\rho \widetilde{E}\right)}{Dt} &= -\rho\widetilde{E}\nablab\cdot\vbt - \nablab\cdot\left(p\vbt\right) + \rho\vbt\cdot\gb - \rho\vbt\cdot\left[\left(\ob\cdot\rbt\right)\ob - \rho\omega^2\rbt\right] \label{eq:etot-rot-total}
     \end{align}

or

.. math::

   \label{eq:etot-rot}
       \frac{\partial\left(\rho\widetilde{E}\right)}{\partial t} = -\nablab\cdot\left(\rho\widetilde{E}\vbt + p\vbt\right) + \rho\vbt\cdot\gb - \rho\vbt\cdot\left[\left(\ob\cdot\rbt\right)\ob - \rho\omega^2\rbt\right].

Switching to the rotating reference frame
=========================================

If we choose to be a stationary observer in the rotating reference
frame, we can drop all of the tildes, which indicated terms in the
non-inertial frame :math:`\widetilde{C}`. Doing so, and making sure we
account for the offset, :math:`\boldsymbol{l}`, between the two coordinate systems, we obtain
the following equations for hydrodynamics in a rotating frame of
reference:

.. math::

   \begin{align}
       \frac{\partial\rho}{\partial t} &= -\nablab\cdot\left(\rho\vb\right) \label{eq:cont-rot-switch} \\
       \frac{\partial \left(\rho\vb\right)}{\partial t} &= -\nablab\cdot\left(\rho\vb\vb\right) - \nablab p + \rho\gb - 2\rho\ob\times\vb - \rho\left(\ob\cdot\rb\right)\ob + \rho\omega^2\rb \label{eq:mom-rot-switch} \\
       \frac{\partial\left(\rho E\right)}{\partial t} &= -\nablab\cdot\left(\rho E\vb + p\vb\right) + \rho\vb\cdot\gb - \rho\left(\ob\cdot\rb\right)\left(\ob\cdot\vb\right) + \rho\omega^2\left(\vb\cdot\rb\right). \label{eq:etot-rot-switch}
     \end{align}

Adding the forcing to the hydrodynamics
=======================================

There are several ways to incorporate the effect of the rotation
forcing on the hydrodynamical evolution. We control this through the
use of the runtime parameter castro.rot_source_type. This
is an integer with values currently ranging from 1 through 4, and
these values are all analogous to the way that gravity is used to
update the momentum and energy. For the most part, the differences are
in how the energy update is done:

* ``castro.rot_source_type = 1`` : we use a standard
  predictor-corrector formalism for updating the momentum and
  energy. Specifically, our first update is equal to :math:`\Delta t \times \mathbf{S}^n` ,
  where :math:`\mathbf{S}^n` is the value of
  the source terms at the old-time (which is usually called time-level
  :math:`n`). At the end of the timestep, we do a corrector step where
  we subtract off :math:`\Delta t / 2 \times \mathbf{S}^n` and add on
  :math:`\Delta t / 2 \times \mathbf{S}^{n+1}`, so that at the end of
  the timestep the source term is properly time centered.

* ``castro.rot_source_type = 2`` : we do something very similar
  to 1. The major difference is that when evaluating the energy source
  term at the new time (which is equal to
  :math:`\mathbf{u} \cdot \mathbf{S}^{n+1}_{\rho \mathbf{u}}`, where the latter is the
  momentum source term evaluated at the new time), we first update the
  momentum, rather than using the value of :math:`\mathbf{u}` before
  entering the rotation source terms. This permits a tighter coupling
  between the momentum and energy update and we have seen that it
  usually results in a more accurate evolution.

* ``castro.rot_source_type = 3`` : we do the same momentum update as
  the previous two, but for the energy update, we put all of the work
  into updating the kinetic energy alone. In particular, we explicitly
  ensure that :math:`(rho e)` maintains the same, and update
  :math:`(rho K)` with the work due to rotation, adding the new
  kinetic energy to the old internal energy to determine the final
  total gas energy. The physical motivation is that work should be
  done on the velocity, and should not directly update the temperature
  – only indirectly through things like shocks.

* ``castro.rot_source_type = 4`` : the energy update is done in a
   “conservative” fashion. The previous methods all evaluate the value
   of the source term at the cell center, but this method evaluates
   the change in energy at cell edges, using the hydrodynamical mass
   fluxes, permitting total energy to be conserved (excluding possible
   losses at open domain boundaries). Additionally, the velocity
   update is slightly different—for the corrector step, we note that
   there is an implicit coupling between the velocity components, and
   we directly solve this coupled equation, which results in a
   slightly better coupling and a more accurate evolution.

The other major option is ``castro.implicit_rotation_update``.
This does the update of the Coriolis term in the momentum equation
implicitly (e.g., the velocity in the Coriolis force for the zone
depends on the updated momentum). The energy update is unchanged.

A detailed discussion of these options and some verification
tests is presented in :cite:`katz:2016`.

Commit message:

address rotation source in spherical 2d coordinate (#2967)

Docs/source/rotation.rst, after:

.. _ch:rotation:

********
Rotation
********

Introduction
============

Currently, Castro supports constant, solid-body rotation about a fixed
(in space and time) axis in 2D and 3D by transforming the evolution
equations to the rotating frame of reference.

To include rotation you must set::

    USE_ROTATION = TRUE

in the ``GNUMakefile``. Rotation can then be enabled via::

    castro.do_rotation = 1

in the inputs file. The rotational period must then be set via
``castro.rotational_period``. The rotational period is internally
converted to an angular frequency for use in the source term
equations.

The axis of rotation currently depends on the dimensionality of the
problem and the value of coord_sys; in all cases, however, the
default axis of rotation points from ``problem::center`` in the vertical direction.

.. note:: make sure you have set the ``problem::center()`` variable
   appropriately for you problem.  This can be done by directly
   setting it in the ``problem_initialize()`` function.

The "vertical direction" is defined as follows:

* 2D

  * ``coord_sys = 0``, (x,y): out of the (x,y)-plane along the “z”-axis

  * ``coord_sys = 1``, (r,z): along the z-axis

  * ``coord_sys = 2``, (r, :math:`\theta`): along the z-axis after converting
    to the spherical coordinate, i.e.
    :math:`\hat{z} = \cos{\theta} \hat{r} = \sin{\theta} \hat{\theta}`.

* 3D

  * ``coord_sys = 0``, (x,y,z): along the z-axis

To change these defaults, modify the omega vector in the
``ca_rotate`` routine found in the ``Rotate_$(DIM)d.f90`` file.

The main parameters that affect rotation are:

-  ``castro.do_rotation`` : include rotation as a forcing
   term (0 or 1; default: 0)

-  ``castro.rotational_period`` : period (s) of rotation
   (default: 0.0)

-  ``castro.rotational_dPdt`` : d(period) / dt for rotation
   (default: 0.0)

-  ``castro.rotation_include_centrifugal`` : whether to
   include the centrifugal forcing (default: 1)

-  ``castro.rotation_include_coriolis`` : whether to
   include the Coriolis forcing (default: 1)

-  ``castro.rotation_include_domegadt`` : whether to
   include the forcing from the time derivative of the rotation
   frequency (default: 1)

-  ``castro.rot_source_type`` : method of updating the
   energy during a rotation update (default: 4)

-  ``castro.implicit_rotation_update`` : for the Coriolis
   term, which mixes momenta in the source term, whether we should
   solve for the update implicitly (default: 1)

-  ``castro.rot_axis`` : rotation axis (default: 3
   (Cartesian); 2 (cylindrical)). This parameter doesn't affect
   spherical coordinate since rotation axis is automatically set
   to z-axis.

For completeness, we show below a derivation of the source terms that
appear in the momentum and total energy evolution equations upon
switching to a rotating reference frame.

Coordinate transformation to rotating frame
===========================================

.. figure:: tframes.png
   :alt: inertial vs. corotating frame

   Inertial frame :math:`C` and
   non-inertial frame :math:`\tilde{C}`. We consider a fluid element
   :math:`P`, whose distance in the two frames is related by
   :math:`{\bf r} = \tilde{\bf{r}} + {\bf l}`

Consider an inertial reference frame :math:`C` and a non-inertial
reference frame :math:`\widetilde{C}` whose origins are separated by
the vector :math:`\boldsymbol{l}` (see the figure above). The
non-inertial frame is rotating about the axis :math:`\ob` with a
*constant* angular velocity :math:`\omega`; furthermore, we assume the
*direction* of the rotational axis is fixed. Consider a fluid element
at the point :math:`P` whose location is given by :math:`\rb` in
:math:`C` and by :math:`\rbt` in :math:`\widetilde{C}`:

.. math:: \rb = \rbt + \boldsymbol{l},

or in component notation

.. math::
   r_i\boldsymbol{e_i} = \widetilde{r_i}\widetilde{\boldsymbol{e_i}} + l_i\boldsymbol{e_i},
   :label: eq:r

where :math:`\boldsymbol{e_i}` and :math:`\widetilde{\boldsymbol{e_i}}` are the :math:`i`\ th unit
vectors in the :math:`C` and :math:`\widetilde{C}` coordinate systems,
respectively. The total time rate of change of :eq:`eq:r` is given by

.. math::
   \frac{Dr_i}{Dt}\boldsymbol{e_i} = \frac{D\widetilde{r_i}}{Dt}\widetilde{\boldsymbol{e_i}} + \widetilde{r_i}\frac{D\widetilde{\boldsymbol{e_i}}}{Dt} + \frac{Dl_i}{Dt}\boldsymbol{e_i},
   :label: eq:vcomp


where we have used the fact that the unit vectors of the inertial
frame :math:`C` are not moving (or at least can be considered stationary,
and the change in :math:`\boldsymbol{l}` gives the relative motion of the two
coordinate systems). By definition, a unit vector can not change its
length, and therefore the only change of :math:`\widetilde{\boldsymbol{e_i}}` with
time can come from changing direction. This change is carried out by
a rotation about the :math:`\ob` axis, and the tip of the unit
vector moves circumferentially, that is

.. math::
   \frac{D\widetilde{\boldsymbol{e_i}}}{Dt} = \ob\times\widetilde{\boldsymbol{e_i}}.
   :label: eq:etilde-rot


Plugging :eq:`eq:etilde-rot` into :eq:`eq:vcomp` and switching back to
vector notation, we have

.. math::
   \frac{D\rb}{Dt} = \frac{D\rbt}{Dt} + \ob\times\rbt + \frac{D\boldsymbol{l}}{Dt}.
   :label: eq:r-dot


The left hand side of :eq:`eq:r-dot` is interpreted as the velocity
of the fluid element as seen in the inertial frame; the first term on the
right hand side is the velocity of the fluid element as seen by a
stationary observer in the rotating frame :math:`\widetilde{C}`. The second
and third terms on the right hand side of :eq:`eq:r-dot` describe the
additional velocity due to rotation and translation of the frame
:math:`\widetilde{C}` as seen in :math:`C`. In other words,

.. math::
   \vb = \vbt + \ob\times\rbt + \boldsymbol{v_l},
   :label: eq:v


where we use :math:`\boldsymbol{v_l}` to represent the translational velocity.

Similarly, by taking a second time derivative of :eq:`eq:v` we have

.. math::
   \frac{D\vb}{Dt} = \frac{D\vbt}{Dt} + 2\ob\times\vbt + \ob\times\left[\ob\times\rbt\right] + \frac{D\boldsymbol{v_l}}{Dt}.
   :label: eq:a


Henceforth we will assume the two coordinate systems are not
translating relative to one another, :math:`\boldsymbol{v_l} = 0`. It is
also worth mentioning that derivatives with respect to spatial
coordinates do not involve additional terms due to rotation,
i.e. :math:`\nablab\cdot\vb = \nablab\cdot\vbt`.
Because of this, the continuity equation remains unchanged in the
rotating frame:

.. math::
   \frac{\partial \rho}{\partial t} = -\nablab\cdot\left(\rho\vbt\right),
   :label: eq:cont-rot


or

.. math::
   \frac{D\rho}{Dt} = -\rho\nablab\cdot\vbt.
   :label: eq:cont-rot-total


Momentum equation in rotating frame
===================================

The usual momentum equation applies in an inertial frame:

.. math::
   \frac{D\left(\rho\vb\right)}{Dt} = -\rho\vb\cdot\nablab\vb - \nablab p + \rho\gb.
   :label: eq:mom1


Using the continuity equation, :eq:`eq:cont-rot-total`, and substituting for
the terms in the rotating frame from :eq:`eq:a`, we have from :eq:`eq:mom1`:

.. math::

   \begin{align}
       \rho\left(\frac{D\vbt}{Dt} + 2\ob\times\vbt + \ob\times\left[\ob\times\rbt\right]\right) - \rho\vb\nablab\cdot\vb &= -\rho\vb\cdot\nablab\vb - \nablab p + \rho\gb \nonumber \\
       \rho\left(\frac{\partial\vbt}{\partial t} + \vbt\cdot\nablab\vbt\right) &= -\nablab p + \rho\gb - 2\rho\ob\times\vbt - \rho\ob\times\left[\ob\times\rbt\right] \nonumber \\
     \frac{\partial\left(\rho\vbt\right)}{\partial t} &= -\nablab\cdot\left(\rho\vbt\vbt\right) - \nablab p + \rho\gb - 2\rho\ob\times\vbt \nonumber \\
     &-\ \rho\ob\times\left[\ob\times\rbt\right]\label{eq:mom-rot}
     \end{align}

or

.. math::
   \frac{D\left(\rho\vbt\right)}{Dt} = -\rho\vbt\cdot\nablab\vbt - \nablab p + \rho\gb - 2\rho\ob\times\vbt - \rho\ob\times\left[\ob\times\rbt\right].
   :label: eq:mom-rot-tot


Energy equations in rotating frame
==================================

From :eq:`eq:mom-rot-tot`, we have the velocity evolution equation in
a rotating frame

.. math::
   \frac{D\vbt}{Dt} = -\frac{1}{\rho}\nablab p + \gb - 2\ob\times\vbt - \ob\times\left[\ob\times\rbt\right].
   :label: eq:v-rot


The kinetic energy equation can be obtained from :eq:`eq:v-rot` by
multiplying by :math:`\rho\vbt`:

.. math::
   \begin{align}
       \rho\vbt\cdot\frac{D\vbt}{Dt} &= -\vbt\cdot\nablab p + \rho\vbt\cdot\gb - 2\rho\vbt\cdot\left[\ob\times\vbt\right] - \rho\vbt\cdot\left\{\ob\times\left[\ob\times\rbt\right]\right\} \nonumber \\
       \frac{1}{2}\frac{D\left(\rho\vbt\cdot\vbt\right)}{Dt} - \frac{1}{2}\vbt\cdot\vbt\frac{D\rho}{Dt} &= -\vbt\cdot\nablab p + \rho\vbt\cdot\gb - \rho\vbt\cdot\left[\left(\ob\cdot\rbt\right)\ob - \rho\omega^2\rbt\right] \nonumber \\
       \frac{1}{2}\frac{D\left(\rho\vbt\cdot\vbt\right)}{Dt} &= -\frac{1}{2}\rho\vbt\cdot\vbt\nablab\cdot\vbt - \vbt\cdot\nablab p + \rho\vbt\cdot\gb - \rho\vbt\cdot\left[\left(\ob\cdot\rbt\right)\ob - \rho\omega^2\rbt\right].
     \end{align}
   :label: eq:ekin-rot-total

The internal energy is simply advected, and, from the first law of
thermodynamics, can change due to :math:`pdV` work:

.. math::
   \frac{D\left(\rho e\right)}{Dt} = -\left(\rho e + p\right)\nablab\cdot\vbt.
   :label: eq:eint-rot-total


Combining :eq:`eq:ekin-rot-total` and :eq:`eq:eint-rot-total` we can
get the evolution of the total specific energy in the rotating frame,
:math:`\rho \widetilde{E} = \rho e + \frac{1}{2}\rho\vbt\cdot\vbt`:

.. math::

   \begin{align}
       \frac{D\left(\rho e\right)}{Dt} + \frac{1}{2}\frac{D\left(\rho\vbt\cdot\vbt\right)}{Dt} &= -\left(\rho e + p + \frac{1}{2}\rho\vbt\cdot\vbt\right)\nablab\cdot\vbt - \vbt\cdot\nablab p \\
                     & + \rho\vbt\cdot\gb -\rho\vbt\cdot\left[\left(\ob\cdot\rbt\right)\ob - \rho\omega^2\rbt\right]\nonumber \\
       \frac{D\left(\rho \widetilde{E}\right)}{Dt} &= -\rho\widetilde{E}\nablab\cdot\vbt - \nablab\cdot\left(p\vbt\right) + \rho\vbt\cdot\gb - \rho\vbt\cdot\left[\left(\ob\cdot\rbt\right)\ob - \rho\omega^2\rbt\right] \label{eq:etot-rot-total}
     \end{align}

or

.. math::

   \label{eq:etot-rot}
       \frac{\partial\left(\rho\widetilde{E}\right)}{\partial t} = -\nablab\cdot\left(\rho\widetilde{E}\vbt + p\vbt\right) + \rho\vbt\cdot\gb - \rho\vbt\cdot\left[\left(\ob\cdot\rbt\right)\ob - \rho\omega^2\rbt\right].

Switching to the rotating reference frame
=========================================

If we choose to be a stationary observer in the rotating reference
frame, we can drop all of the tildes, which indicated terms in the
non-inertial frame :math:`\widetilde{C}`. Doing so, and making sure we
account for the offset, :math:`\boldsymbol{l}`, between the two coordinate systems, we obtain
the following equations for hydrodynamics in a rotating frame of
reference:

.. math::

   \begin{align}
       \frac{\partial\rho}{\partial t} &= -\nablab\cdot\left(\rho\vb\right) \label{eq:cont-rot-switch} \\
       \frac{\partial \left(\rho\vb\right)}{\partial t} &= -\nablab\cdot\left(\rho\vb\vb\right) - \nablab p + \rho\gb - 2\rho\ob\times\vb - \rho\left(\ob\cdot\rb\right)\ob + \rho\omega^2\rb \label{eq:mom-rot-switch} \\
       \frac{\partial\left(\rho E\right)}{\partial t} &= -\nablab\cdot\left(\rho E\vb + p\vb\right) + \rho\vb\cdot\gb - \rho\left(\ob\cdot\rb\right)\left(\ob\cdot\vb\right) + \rho\omega^2\left(\vb\cdot\rb\right). \label{eq:etot-rot-switch}
     \end{align}

Adding the forcing to the hydrodynamics
=======================================

There are several ways to incorporate the effect of the rotation
forcing on the hydrodynamical evolution. We control this through the
use of the runtime parameter castro.rot_source_type. This
is an integer with values currently ranging from 1 through 4, and
these values are all analogous to the way that gravity is used to
update the momentum and energy. For the most part, the differences are
in how the energy update is done:

* ``castro.rot_source_type = 1`` : we use a standard
  predictor-corrector formalism for updating the momentum and
  energy. Specifically, our first update is equal to :math:`\Delta t \times \mathbf{S}^n` ,
  where :math:`\mathbf{S}^n` is the value of
  the source terms at the old-time (which is usually called time-level
  :math:`n`). At the end of the timestep, we do a corrector step where
  we subtract off :math:`\Delta t / 2 \times \mathbf{S}^n` and add on
  :math:`\Delta t / 2 \times \mathbf{S}^{n+1}`, so that at the end of
  the timestep the source term is properly time centered.

* ``castro.rot_source_type = 2`` : we do something very similar
  to 1. The major difference is that when evaluating the energy source
  term at the new time (which is equal to
  :math:`\mathbf{u} \cdot \mathbf{S}^{n+1}_{\rho \mathbf{u}}`, where the latter is the
  momentum source term evaluated at the new time), we first update the
  momentum, rather than using the value of :math:`\mathbf{u}` before
  entering the rotation source terms. This permits a tighter coupling
  between the momentum and energy update and we have seen that it
  usually results in a more accurate evolution.

* ``castro.rot_source_type = 3`` : we do the same momentum update as
  the previous two, but for the energy update, we put all of the work
  into updating the kinetic energy alone. In particular, we explicitly
  ensure that :math:`(rho e)` maintains the same, and update
  :math:`(rho K)` with the work due to rotation, adding the new
  kinetic energy to the old internal energy to determine the final
  total gas energy. The physical motivation is that work should be
  done on the velocity, and should not directly update the temperature
  – only indirectly through things like shocks.

* ``castro.rot_source_type = 4`` : the energy update is done in a
   “conservative” fashion. The previous methods all evaluate the value
   of the source term at the cell center, but this method evaluates
   the change in energy at cell edges, using the hydrodynamical mass
   fluxes, permitting total energy to be conserved (excluding possible
   losses at open domain boundaries). Additionally, the velocity
   update is slightly different—for the corrector step, we note that
   there is an implicit coupling between the velocity components, and
   we directly solve this coupled equation, which results in a
   slightly better coupling and a more accurate evolution.

The other major option is ``castro.implicit_rotation_update``.
This does the update of the Coriolis term in the momentum equation
implicitly (e.g., the velocity in the Coriolis force for the zone
depends on the updated momentum). The energy update is unchanged.

A detailed discussion of these options and some verification
tests is presented in :cite:`katz:2016`.
